---
title: "PHYS1302 Lecture 1: Charge"
date: 2020-01-20
math: true 
categories: [PHYS1302]
---

### Announcements

- Pryke is at the south pole, will teach second half of the semester
- Haines will teach first half

### TODO

- Seduce Haines, get into lab.
    - Get onto Canvas
    - Register clicker
    - Acquire books

### Syllabus

- Friday will be used sometimes
    - Lecture this friday
- Quizzes on Feb 14th, Mar 4th (wednesday!), Apr 3 and Apr 24th.
- Mostly same rules as 1301
- There is actual homework in this class :(

### Outline

- Electrostatics
- Current, DC circuits
- Magnetism
- E&M

### Charge

Like charges repel, unlike attract. Glorious.

Elementary particles have three intrinsic properties: mass (kg), angular momentum (spin), and electric charge (Coulomb). Manitude of charge of an electron is $e=1.6\times 10^{-19}$ C, they have negative charge.

Charge is difficult to measure, so we use the MKSA system instead of MKSC. A is for ampere, which is $C/s$.

    Total charge of the universe *may* be zero, because charge seems to be conserved. Neutrons decay following $n\implies p + e + \overbar{v}_e$, antineutrino has no charge.


### Coulomb's Law

Oh look, it's an inverse square law!

$\left\vert\vec{F}_{\text{elec}}\right\vert = k\dfrac{q_1q_2}{r^2}$

such that $k=\dfrac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0} = 9\times 10^9 \dfrac{Nm^2}{C^2}.$

Vector law also exists, 

$\vec{F}_{\text{elec}} = k\dfrac{q_1q_2}{r^2}\vec{r}$

but notation is different in every damn book, so just apply common sense at the end.

By Newton's 3rd law, $\vec{F_{12}} = -\vec{F_{21}}.$

Gravity is considered a weak force because of magnitude ratios. For a pair of electrions, $\dfrac{F_{\text{elec}}}=\dfrac{F_{\text{grav}}} = 4.17 \times 10^{42}$, thus electrons do come together naturally (surprised?).

### Dipoles

Dipoles are attracted to charg.