---
title: "CSCI2021 Lecture 2: More Logistics!"
date: 2020-01-23
math: true 
categories: [CSCI2021]
---

### Announcements

- A 4 credit class costs 2049.20 USD at the in-state rate

### TODO

- Homework remains done

### Functions

```
void swap(int a, int b) {
    int tmp = a; 
    a = b;
    b = tmp; 
    return;
}
```

*What is tragically wrong?* 

Notice that we are passing *values* into the function, rather than describing their place in memory. This can be fixed with pointers, which *point* to the location in memory.

Functions are called by allocating more memory, the caller (where the function is called) pushes a *stack frame* onto the functio call stack. That frame has all of the space needed for the local variables from the function. Values are then copied into the frame from the caller, so that the callee can execute with them.

A stack is a type of data strucure that works as follows: Items can be put onto the top of the stack and removed from the top of the stack, there are no other actions. Every time an item is removed from the function stack execution priority is returned to the next item that is then on top.

**Q: Is memory freed when the variables go out of scope?** Yes.

C does *not* have automatic garbage collection, though functions automatically free (return) their memory. Manual management happens with `malloc` and `free` (CS50x all over again), which interact with memory in the heap.

C is very low level, can interact with hardware but at the cost of safety. (Alternatively, Rust is just superior.)

### Von Neumann

Processing operations, as a turing machine. Control with instructions, each of which have memory adresses, automatically progressing if not explicitly instructed to do other things. Has long term memory, all points in which have indices.

### Pointers

`&x` can be used to reference the memory adress of variable `x`  
`int *a` is a pointer to an integer, as in it stores the location of a memory adress in an integer could be stored  
`*a` get or set the memory that `a` points to (also known as dereferencing)

Thus, the function could be written properly as 

``` 
void swap_ptr(int *a, int *b) {
    int tmp = *a;
    *a = *b;
    *b = tmp;
    return;
}
```

**Q: What happened to #2032?** Pointers take up 8 bytes.

**Q: Are pointer types checked?** No. You can "flip the bird at" (quote Kauffman) at the compiler and do whatever you want with types. That said, it's for safety.

### Asterisk

It has 3 uses:

1. Multiplication, `a = b*c`
2. Declaring a pointer, `int *x`
3. Dereferencing, `int p = *x`
