---
title: "Feynman Lectures II: E&M"
date: 2020-01-31
math: true 
categories: [PHYS1302]
---

# Electricity and Magnetism

## Electric Force

Electric forces are many orders of magnitude greater than gravitational forces. Unlike gravity, which is purely an attractive force, electrical forces can be either repulsive or attractive. Electrical forces often seem less significant, but that is because in most situations charges are balanced. 

- For example, if two people each had 1% more electrons than protons then stood within an arm's length of each other the repulsive forces would be strong enough to lift a weight with as much mass as the Earth.

*If electrical forces are so strong, why don't atoms collapse and/or fall apart?* 

    - E&M are largely built on relativistic properties, which to the best of my current understanding are fundamentally quantum. 
    - Atoms don't collapse because any attempt at confining an electron results in it having a higher mean square velocity and overcoming any attractive force from the nucleus. - - *But what about the nucleus?* It seems that the nucleus is also a mystery, composed of purely positive and neutral charges but it stays together. That is a result of (cleverly-named) nuclear force, which falls off much faster but is extremely strong. 
    - The fall off of nuclear force is evident in radioactive atoms, where the nuclei decay, or even the process of fission, where a large atom such as uranium has it's nucleus bombarded, resulting in a splitting chain reaction.

The force on a particle can be represented by the equation 

$$\vec{F}=q(\vec{E}+\vec{v}\times\vec{B})$$

where $$q$$ is charge, $$\vec{E}$$ is the electric field, $$\vec{v}$$ is the velocity of the particle, and $$\vec{B}$$ is the magnetic field.

In addition, electric forces are subject to superposition: The total force on an object is the sum of each individual force acting on it.


## Electric and Magnetic Fields

A **field** is a physical quantity that varies over location (and potentially time). That means that a field such as $$\vec{E}$$ can be represented by the function $$\vec{E}(x,y,z,t)$$.
    - More intuitively than $$\vec{E}$$ or $$\vec{B}$$, we can think of other fields such as temperature or fluid velocity

### Representation

A field is a rather abstract concept, so it can be useful to visually represent. The two main methods for doing that are with discrete vectors, where magnitude indicates strength, or with flow lines such that individual vectors are tangent to them. Discrete vectors provide more precise understanding since to convey strength of field with flow lines line density can be used but it's not a very quantitative metric. However, both methods discard a lot of information.

### Vector Fields

Vector fields have two important quantities, flux and circulation.

The **flux** of a vector field is a measure of movement through a boundary, the magnitude of which is represented by a normal vector. Thus, the equation would be 

$$\text{flux}=\text{(magnitude of average normal)}\cdot\text{(area of boundary)}

or, more precisely,

$$\cint_S \vec{E}\cdot\ d\vec{A}.$$

The **circulation** of a vector field is how aligned movement is with a curve, which logically corresponds to the tangent:

$$\text{circulation} =\text{(average tangential)}\cdot\text{(length of curve)}.$$

TODO: this also has precise mathematical definition, but I'd botch the notation. It's probably something like

$$\int_C \gradient \vec{E} \ dt$$

but that notation is distinctly wrong.


## Fundamental Laws 

Electromagnetism has three of them.

The first law is about flux, 

$$(\text{flux of }\vec{E}\text{ through } S)=\dfrac{\text{(net charge)}}{\epsilon_0}$$ 

which can be written as an integral instead:

$$\cint \vec{E}\cdot\ d\vec{A}=\dfrac{Q}{\epsilon_0}.$$

The second law is about circulation, 

$$(\text{circulation of }\vec{E}\text{ around }C)=-\dfrac{d}{dt}(\text{flux of }\vec{B}\text{ through } S).$$

The third law is that

$$\cint_S \vec{B}\dot\ d\vec{A}=0$$

for closed $$S$$.

For curve $$C$$ around the aforementioned $$S$$:

$$c^2(\text{circ of }\vec{B}\text{ around }C)=\dfrac{d}{dt}(\text{flux of }\vec{E}\text{ through } S)+\dfrac{\text{flux of current}}{\epsilon_0}

given that $$c$$ is the speed of light.


## Magnets

*What is a magnet?*

They seem to have perpetual circulation, magnets can be replaced by a coil with current (electromagnet). That arises from quantum properties.

There is no such thing as a "magnetic charge" which is why the flux over a closed surface is always zero.

Since 

$$(\text{circulation of }\vec{E}\text{ around }C)=-\dfrac{d}{dt}(\text{flux of }\vec{B}\text{ through } S)$$

a moving magnet induces an electric field and changing electric fields produce magnetic effects, thus fields propagate through space.

The inherent propagation means that there is no mechanical analogy.

