---
title: "MATH4428 Lecture 2: ???"
date: 2019-01-23
math: true 
categories: [MATH4428]
---

### Announcements

- Almost got to apply the 15 minute rule.

### Schedule

(this was written in plaintext and printed, distribution also included complaints about the copier)

I'm not going to write it out because the details are not very important, we will be getting through the entire book. Not getting into book until next week because class addition deadline has not passed.

Exams will be substantially easier than homework. Each homework is meant to take an extended period of time.First assignment due Feb 19. 


### Linear Space (Review?)

(now that we have a breakdown it seems that UMTYMP actually did cover a lot of this class, I pressume there will be value in the additional depth)

A linear vector space is a set, $$S$$, such that for any given elements $$a$$ and $$b$$ $$a+b\in S$$ and $$\forall \lambda \in \mathbb{R}\ \lambda a\in S$$. From the definition, it follows that $$\mathbb{R}^n$$ is a linear vector space.

A Euclidean space satisfies the conditions to be a linear space with the addition of a scalar (or dot) product operation, $$(\vec{a},\vec{b})=\vec{a}\cdot\vec{b}=\vec{a}\vec{b}$$ generally being the accepted notation. ($$\vert\vec{a}\vert=(\vec{a}\cdot\vec{a})^2$$)

(the explanation was rather unclear, I'm mostly filling in the definitions myself, which does not bode well for when unknown topics appear.)

(Mentioned that he taught the Cauchy-Schwarzt Inequality in a 5xxx calc class, but UMTYMP covered it? *What?*)

### Cauchy-Swarzt Proof

Redefine $$a$$ and $$b$$ as unit vectors, such that the prior $$a$$ is now $$c_1a$$ and the prior $$b$$ is now $$c_2b$$. By definition, $$\vert a\vert=\vert b\vert=1.$$ Using the summation definition, $$\sum_{j=1}^n a^2_k = \sum_{j=1}^n b^2_j = 1$$ which implies that $$(a,b) \leq \sum^n_{j=1} a_jb_j \leq \sum_{j=1}^n \dfrac{1}{2}(a^2_j+b^2_j)$$. (The final step follows from $$0\leq c^2+d^2 + 2dc = (c+d)^2 \ implies cd \leq \dfrac{c^2+d^2}{2}.) Then, $$\sum_{j=1}^n \dfrac{1}{2}(a_j^2+b_j^2) = \dfrac{1}{2}\left(1+1\right) = 1.$$