---
title: "ENGL1501 Lecture 8: Foe"
date: 2020-02-13
categories: [ENGL1501]
---

### TODO

- Observation Journal
- Paper 1, draft

## Foe

Construction of place, self, and the other

*What does it mean to be modern or civilized?*

### Susan

Trying to sell her experience, terminology is dramatic and romanticized.

*Why does she need to construct herself as a victim?*

Has ultimate power as the writer. 

Story within a story. Who are the audiences, both internal and external?

Certainty that she imposes over others.

### Friday

Crusoe names Friday in the original book. 

"He only knows the words he requires"

Introduction frames Susan more than Friday She assumes that he's a savage and gets right to the derogatory stuff.

Can tie to the Tempest with Caliban and Ariel.

### Voicelessness

Even if Friday has a tongue, he would not be "able" to speak. Everything relies on subjugation at some level.

Have to use the "language of the criminal" to describe the problem. Language is violence.

### Purpose

Cruso wants to cultivate the land, so he makes terraces even though he has literally nothing to grow.

Pointless expenditure.


## Paper 1

There will be three drafts, fast iteration. Just write it.


## Quick Write

Through the several pieces of writing that the class has covered, it's clear that communication has a fundamental part in both shaping and enforcing the structure of society. Language can be an insurmountable barrier between groups of people, but it does not require an entirely different tongue (or lack thereof) to separate people into groups. To be able to communicate means to be able to share and receive information, news, and, most importantly, ideas. To deprive a human of that ability, or even to slightly curtail it, is a fundamental form of oppression, without ideas and relationships humans are no more than any other animal. Thus, limiting the communication of others results is a way of expressing power over them. That which can not be communicated with fundamentally falls into the unknown, which is an element that any adventure requires. An adventure inherently relies upon incompleteness of information, for otherwise the task is trivialized.

Following paragraphs could be 

- voicelessness, specifically as it appears in *the Invisible Man*
- servitude, Friday only knowing what he "requires"
- dialects as a form of status, from *UGRR*