---
title: "MATH4428 Lecture 5: Optimization"
date: 2020-01-31
math: true 
categories: [MATH4428]
---

### Announcements

- We're behind schedule *already*
- Book does not explain fundamental fields

### Remarks

Boundary analysis is needed when maximizing, just checking that the gradient is zero is not sufficient because points on boundary may be higher.

### Five Step Method

1. Ask a question
2. Select a model
3. Formulate the model
4. Solve the problem
5. Answer the question

(Currently on a tangent about triangles in spherical geometry)


**Problem:** A pig weighs $$w=200$$ pounds and gains 5 pounds per day. Market price is current $$p=0.65$$ dollars per pound, but falls by $$0.01$$ dollar per pound per day. When should the pig be sold?

(this is the example from chapter 1 of the textbook)

The problem is discrete, so differentiating is fake but we'll do so anyway. In addition, let $$t$$ equal the time in days. We can let $$R$$ be revenue and $$C$$ be cost of upkeep, which can be modeled as 

$$R=(w+5t)(p-0.01t)\text{ and } C = 0.45t.$$

We then have a profit $$P=R-C$$, written out as 

$$P=(w+5t)(p-0.01t)-0.45t.$$

Now we differentiate, find that the maximum is at $$t=7$$ and call it a day. (If we want to be precise we're taking the derivative of $$P=f(x)$$ such that $$x=t$$)

Oh wait, we're making 1400 assumptions!

- Time must be greater than zero (farmers can not afford time machines)
- Pig has a linear growth rate of precisely 5 pounds per day
- Price drop is linear
- Cost to keep does not change wrt weight (or any other factor)

(I was trying to take notes before we actually got to the topic, but we ran out of time. For now, just being able to take the derivative suffices and you may tell your 6-year-old supervisor that the pig must be sold after 8 days taking all assumptions as law.)

The problem can also be solved discretely, every morning determine if the pig should be sold today or reconsidered tomorrow. Pretty much, just write $$R=wr-0.45t\implies \dfrac{dR}{dt}=w'r + wr'-0.45$$ which is positive when $$w'r+wr'>0.45$$. Pretty much means that the pig gains more value than it loses.

(did a multivariable example in the last few minutes, but it was trivial and boring. Casually wish I'd held onto MATH5445 but I think that would have killed me.)
