---
title: "The Markov Method"
date: 2020-02-02
math: true 
categories: [Ranking Research]
---

(Reading: *Who's #1* by Langville and Meyer)

# The Markov Method

**Maid Idea: ordering objects "vote" on each other based on statistics from one-to-one relationships.**

The Markov Method follows the same principles as the (PageRank method_[http://www.ams.org/publicoutreach/feature-column/fcarc-pagerank]. If the method is being used to rank sports teams we can imagine the evaluation process as figuring out how much time a fair-weather fan spends supporting each team. If the fan starts at an arbitrary team $$A$$, he could ask "who is the best team?" and team A would say "Team B or C, they both beat us." He would then flip a coin to decide which bandwagon to join and repeat the process ad infinitum. 

Immediately there are some potential problems, for example undefeated teams: Our fair-weather friend would end up at that team and have nowhere to go, suiting him perfectly but a ranking system not so much.

## Terminology and Notation

**Stochastic:** Property of a matrix indicating that the rows sum to one.  
**Substochastic:** As stochastic, except rows may add to less than one.

| Term                  | Definition                            	|
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------	|
| $$n$$                 | The number of objects being ranked    	|
| $$k$$                 | The number of statistics incorporated 	|
| $$\bm{V}_{1\dots k}$$ | Raw voting matrix                     	|
| $$\bm{S}_{1\dots k}$$ | Stochastic voting matrix              	|
| $$\alpha_{1\dots k}$$ | Statistic weights                     	|
| $$\bm{S}$$            | Composed stochastic matrix            	|
| $$\overline{\bm{S}}$$ | Irreducible Markov matrix             	|
| $$\vec{r}$$           | Rating vector (stationary)            	|

## Example

Let's say that we have a tournament between three teams; A, B, and C. We can make a **voting matrix** from whatever statistic we would like, the simplest being win-loss data. For example, we could have 

$$\bm{V}=\bordermatrix{ & A & B & C \\
                      A & 0 & 1 & 1 \\
                      B & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
                      C & 0 & 1 & 0}.$$

Each entry $$\bm{V}_{ij}$$ is the number of votes team $$i$$ casts for team $$j$$. In this case, team A votes for both B and C, indicating that they lost every match, and B votes for no one, indicating that they were undefeated. In addition, note that no team votes for itself, which makes sense since teams can't compete against themselves.

It seems unfair that A's votes are worth as much as C's given that A lost every match, so we will normalize each row to get 

$$\bm{N}=\bordermatrix{ & A & B & C \\
                      A & 0 & 1/2 & 1/2 \\
                      B & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
                      C & 0 & 1 & 0}.$$


However, we still have a major problem! This matrix is not properly stochastic, the aforementioned fan will go to B and never leave. The simplest solution is to replace all empty rows with $$1/n$$, giving us the stochastic matrix

$$\bm{S}=\bordermatrix{ & A & B & C \\
                      A & 0 & 1/2 & 1/2 \\
                      B & 1/3 & 1/3 & 1/3 \\
                      C & 0 & 1 & 0}.$$

Now, we compute the stationary vector $$\vec{r}$$, stationary meaning that $$\bm{S}\vec{r}=\vec{r}$$. 

(I'd draw a Markov graph here but I don't know how to use tikz)


## Undefeated Teams

In the example we handled undefeated teams by saying they vote for every team equally, but there are alternatives: 

### Self-Voting

An undefeated term deserves to give themselves credit, so we let 

$$\bm{S}=\bordermatrix{ & A & B & C \\
                      A & 0 & 1/2 & 1/2 \\
                      B & 0 & 1 & 0 \\
                      C & 0 & 1 & 0}.$$

However, the same issue is present, once the random walk reaches B it's over. Thus. we take the "teleportation matrix" $$\bm{E}$$, of all 1's, and let 

$$\overline{\bm{S}}=\beta\bm{S}+(1-\beta)/n \bm{E}$$

for some scalar $$\beta$$. Notably, a larger $$\beta$$ means respecting the original data more, if $$\beta=0$$ then all choices will be entirely random. PageRank uses $$\beta=0.85$$ and lower value such as $$\beta=0.6$$ or $$\beta=0.5%% have been successful for NFL and NCAA teams.

### Rejection

(This method seems far more awkward to me, but I have not read much about it)

In this method the undefeated teams send votes back to the teams that vote for them, but it results in an uglier matrix and still has looping problems if there exists a team that lost to *just* the undefeated team.


## Improvement

The beauty of the Markov method is that stochastic matrices can be made from any factor, or even a combination of factors. If stochastic matrices $$\bm{S}_1,\dots\bm{S}_k$$ are constructed for statistics 1 through $$k$$ they can then be composed into a final matrix

$$\bm{S}=\alpha_1\bm{S}_1+\dots+\alpha_k\bm{S}_k$$

such that $$\alpha_1,\dots,\alpha_k$$ are a set of scalars that add to one. This makes the Markov method incredibly versatile because any new factor or change in data can easily be incorporated.