---
title: "CSCI2021 Lecture 5: Memory"
date: 2020-01-31
math: true 
categories: [CSCI2021]
---

### Announcements

- CSE fair on Feb 4th, 1200-1700 Mariucci
- Emacs lecture on Feb 4th, 1830-2000 Keller 3-180.

### TODO

- HW2 
- Project 1 this afternoon
    - Absolutely hyped for this
- Read Bryant Ch1
- Know *all of* C

### Project Info

- About C fundamentals
- Makefile and tests are provided
- Score is 50% checklist and 50% tests, both of which are available.
- Don't submit late.
- Long linear table of contents with goals and subpoints
- Project document is currently 24 pages long
- "Tips include how to put the bottom numbers on without wanting to kill yourself"

### Styling

- Use array references when possible, pointers are both ugly and hard to read
- *Definitely* do not dereference array pointers
- However, for string processing pointer arithmetic is ideal

(after misspelling his own name twice) "Giving a presentation lowers your IQ to about 60%."

(on the topic of string processing in C) "I don't want you to hate yourself as much as I do."

### Memory Allocation

Most C data is of fixed size.

Buffer overflow attacks exploit limited memory.

`malloc(bytes)` is used for memory allocation, returns a void pointer to the memory address or NULL if there is no space. `malloc` is often used with the `sizeof(type)` function since C gave us trust issues. `free(pointer)` is then used to return the memory.


### Semantics

How many bytes? How many elements?

```
char   *a = malloc(16);                 // 16, 16
char   *b = malloc(16*sizezof(char));   // 16, 16
int    *c = malloc(16);                 // 16, 4
int    *d = malloc(16*sizezof(int));    // 64, 16
double *e = malloc(16);                 // 16, 2
double *f = malloc(16*sizezof(double)); // 128, 16
int   **g = malloc(16);                 // 16, 2 (unless if 32bit)
int   **h = malloc(16*sizeof(int*));    // 128, 16 (unless if 32bit)
```