---
title: "CSCI2021 Lecture 6: "
date: 2020-02-03
math: true 
categories: [CSCI2021]
---

### Announcements

- CSE fair on Feb 4th, 1200-1700 Mariucci
- Emacs lecture on Feb 4th, 1830-2000 Keller 3-180.

### TODO

- HW2 (Wednesday)
- Project 1 
- Read Bryant Ch1
- Know *all of* C
- CSCI4041 is another algorithm class
- First exam is on Valentine's day

### Project Problem 3

TODO:

- Binary search tree
- file IO with pre-ordering
- recursive printing.
- add node (replace if present)
- more things, but we're actually expected to read the project specs to find out

Recursion in C scares us because it adds functions to the stack and thus takes more memory.

Run the unit tests or suffer.

- However, don't re-run the entire suite if avoidable.

### Abusing Malloc

Malloc will return a null pointer if not enough memory is available.

(Kauffman just wanted to flex 16 GB of RAM?)

*Why does malloc actually let some tiny C program take 16 GB?* Linux is *optimistic* about memory allocation, it pretty much hopes the memory won't be used if competition is present.

*When should I malloc?* When sizes will only be known at runtime.

*Where does malloc even find memory?* In the heap.

### Memory

Memory is just a large array, with four regions (ordered from highest to lowest address): 

- Stack: automatic, push/pop functions
- Heap: for `malloc()` and `free()`
- Global: `static` vars
- Text: assembly instructions

The stack grows into the heap, if it reaches the boundary then we get a stack overflow.

Later in the course we get to study ELF format and memory managers.

### Valgrind

Brilliant memory checker. Will slow your program down by orders of magnitude, but will also say where things are going wrong.

Compile programs with the `-g` flag to annotate Assembly. Then can run `valgrind a.out` for *grofit*.