---
title: "ENGL1501 Lecture 3: Underground Railroad"
date: 2020-01-27
categories: [ENGL1501]
---

### TODO

- Scrapbook, Tues
- Contact community organization, Wed
- Visit river for observation journal

## Underground Railroad

How is the protagonist constructed against the environment?

### Expectations

- Clearly historical fiction, but includes imaginative elements (literal railroad, skyscraper, etc.) and also more character driven than traditionally linear.
- Point of view is third person, but narrator provides insight into (solely) Cora's thoughts. Any steps away from her perspective are still clearly related, such as family history but only the parts Cora herself knows. Not being first person lends legitimacy.
- Obstacles are physical, psychological, and legal
- As a "hero" Cora does not have time to think as most do, result of circumstances.
- Cora has an identity beyond her victimhood.

### Railroad

- (lost will to take notes already)
- Sociologists from the time claimed that wanting to runaway was an internal condition to maintain narrative
- American portrayal of strength is gendered: males are associated with dominant strength versus feminine enduring strength.
- Big woke: looking outside underground &rarr; dark and opaque. They don't have rights and thus different experience.

### Narrative of Life of Frederick Douglass

- First person, more of a confessional.
- Draws parallels to puritans.
- History vs historical fiction, legitimacy was external
- Brings up idea of birthday as humanizing, instead grounded in legacy instead of by chronology

### Plot

- Starts with fun spiralling for context
- Moves on to linearity, chapters titled with location
- Dehumanizing language, focus on chattel slavery
- Completion is fake, "arrival" is just being less on edge which is problematic
- Actions are defensive