---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 15: Quaternions"
date: 2019-12-18
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### Announcements

- It's "Adult Party" time
- Drink choices are minute maid and diet coke

### TODO

- ~~Homework lmao.~~


### Quaternions

**Lemma:** Let $R$ be a commutative ring without zero-divisors. If $a\in R$ then $a$ has at most two square roots, $r$ and $-r$.

**Pf:** Suppose we have three roots. $s^2-a = 0$, $r^2-a=0$ and $(-r)^2-a=0$. Root of $x^2-a=0$, also $(x+r)(x-r)=x^2-xr+xr-r^2=0\implies x^2-a=0\implies (s-r)(s+r)=0 \implies s=\pm r.$

**Def:** $\mathbb{H}==\{a+bi+cj+dk\vert a,b,c,d\in\mathbb{R}\}$

subject to $ijk=i^2=j^2=k^2=-1.$  

Always remember that things are not commutative, so both left and right division exist.


### Rotations

Can either represent with two angle for position relative to origin and extra for particle orientation
Alternatively, unit vector for direction and angle.
Rotation matrices with determinant 1

We don't like any of these options, so unit qauternions. For a rotation given by $(\vec{u}, \theta)$ the corresponding quaternion is $q=\cos{\dfrac{\theta}{2}}+(u_1i+u_2k+u_3k)\cdot\sin\dfrac{\theta}{2}

Quaternions can be multiplied for fun and grofit.


### Cayley-Dickson Construction

Idea: Give a multiplication on $\mathbb{C}^2$

$(a,b)\cdot(c,d)=(ac-\overline{d}b,da+b\overline{C}).$

Allows generation of quaternions from two imaginary numbers.

The construction can be repeated infinitely to create $n$-inions.

A constructor for octinions appeared on the board, but no thanks. Associativity breaks down.

$x\cdot(x\cdot x)\stackrel{?}{=}(x\cdot x)\cdot x$ and we give up on math.

Octinions are non-associative, but $x(xy)=(xx)y$, $x(yx)=(xy)x$, $y(xx)=(yx)x$.

I now think Jay is just trying to show us how much math can break down.


### Broken math

Suppose $a$, $b$, $c$ st $ab=1$ and $ca=1$. $c(ab)=c\implies (ca)b=c\implies b=c$. Associativity *not* abused.
### Facts

- *[Jay graded half of the homeworks one way then the other half a different way.]* It'll be a difference of just 1 or 2 points *(15%)*
- If you did what I did it works
- Right, I have notes. I was like, what am I supposed to do now?
- I don't want to talk about anything that takes too much mental effort.
- I forgot what notation I'm supposed to use
- You evenetually run out of letters so you invent new letters
- It's a bit of a mess I don't want to do it
- It's hard to draw, I don't care about it today
- I think of it as special &rarr; determinant one, orthogonal &rarr; orthogonal
- It's easy, assuming you can multiply matrices
- Don't ask me about the theta over two, I don't have a good explanation for it but it works
- I should be able to spell Cayley, I see it everywhere. *{"why?"}* He's a famous mathematician.
- You have something weaker than associativity, alternative.
- *[on alternative]* It's slightly better than nothing
- All math that has been done is useful for something, but the question is what? Often, the answer is more math.
- It's not like mathematicians have tried to prove every true statement. There are too many.
- Let's end it now, I don't want to show any of this.
- *[gets distracted by projective spaces and node map equivalence*] One of these is a circle