---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 1: Overview"
date: 2019-09-04
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### Announcements

- No tests
- Ask questions on Canvas

### TODO

- Weekly homework assignment


### Topics

- **Algebraic Geometry**: Studying the zeros of a polynomial (for today anyway). How to do things exactly *sometimes*. At our level vaguely equal to commutate algebra. 
- **Commutative Algebra**: Study of things that look like polynomials
- **Polynomial**: A polynomial is variables $x_1,\dots,x_n$ is a finite sum of terms. A term is an expression of the form $cx^n$ such that $n\geq 0$. 
- Rings: $\mathbb{Z}$: Integers, $\mathbb{Q}$: Rational, $\mathbb{R}$: Real, $\mathbb{C}$ Complex.
- $\mathbb{R}[x]$, polynomial ring, quantity of term and coefficient space. Share most properties other than multiplicative inverse. 
- **Ring**: A set $R$ is a ring if it has a additive and multiplicative identity, supports binary operation, the commutative property, distributive and associative property.
- **Field**: A field is  a ring that for all $a\in k$ such that $a\neq 0$ there exists a $b$ such that $a\dot b=1$, $0\neq 1$. All poly rings are not fields.
- **Variety**: For $f_1,\dots,f_m\in k[x_1,\dots,x_n]$, $V(f_1,\dots,f_m)= a\in k^n \implies f_j (a) = 0$.
    - Ex: $V(ax^2+bx+c)=\left\{\dfrac{-b\pm\sqrt{b^2-4ac}}{2a}\right\}$


### Questions

1. When do two curves intersect
1. What polynomials are zero on parametric curves? **Implicitization.**
1. Given a zero set find a parametrization. **Parametrization.**


### Application

1. Splines (FRC gang?)
2. Automatic geometric theorem proving: robotics applications to determine facts of system.

### Facts

1. $0\neq 1$
2. $16=4$
3. $4\dot 3=0$
4. Uses xmonad


