---
title: "CSCL1101 Prompt 3: Cesaire's Tempest"
date: 2019-09-25
categories: [CSCL1101]
---

*[Note: I did not write last week's discussion prompt. I was sick and entirely unmotivated to do so, that is why there is a two week gap.]*

The first thing that I noticed, as many others have, is that the play is substantially more modern, which makes it easier to follow. Specifically a  few quotes were clarified in my mind, such as the original quote 

``` 
Methinks he
hath no drowning mark upon him; his complexion is
perfect gallows" 
```

becoming

```
We'll pull through, you'll see, because he looks tome more  like someone who'll end up on the gallows, not beneath the billows.
```

The original quote (when I read it for the first time) came across as somewhat ambigious, I was nomt sure if it wasa near-divine decree that he would be hung or even a threat that he should be focusing more on his job.

A few structure changes are made, for one the entire play seemed more condensed but there were also other alterations, such as the flashback inserted into the diegesis when Prospero is explaining the situation to Miranda, which puts additional emphasison some of the major themes such as education. This shift in focus can be seen at many points throughout the revised play, an example barely a page latter being where Prospero calls Ariel an intellectual with accompanyng shortcomings.

It seems like the play is catering more to someone who has already read the original work, though having already read it I don't have the point of view to be sure. There is more foreshadowing of the ending with Caliban talking a lot more about his unwillingness and Prospero saying that those upon the ship should be spared. There are very direct connections to external (more modern) themes such as race and most specifically slavery.