---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 13: Inverse Kinematics"
date: 2019-12-04
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### TODO

- Homework lmao.

### Homework Review 

11.2: 

Need proper casework, can't assume that $f(x,c)$ is non-constant. Case with $y$ terms (as written) and case without (must have solds in one variable and changing $y$ creates infinite solutions). Everyone missed the fact that all coefficients can vanish in some cases, the necessary point being that $c$ is not in the ideal of coefficient functions.

For part (c) a geometric proof is far more slick, we have 

$V(\text{Res}(f,g,x))\supseteq V(I_y) \supseteq \pi_y(V(f,g)).$

Since the resultant is not zero, the policy mapping must have a finite number of possible $y$ values, then by symmetry $x$ has a finite number of values thus $V(f,g)$ is finite.

## Inverse Kinematics

### Example

If we have a robot with segments of length 2 and 3, how can it reach the point $(1,1)$?

Option 1: Draw circles. 
    - Pro: finds points quickly, 
    - Cons, numerous: does not find parameters, only works with two segments, computationally intensive, requires intersection of conics.

Option 2: Hacky trig.
    - Pro: got the answer
    - Con: requires geometric intuition

Option 3: Algebraic geometry.
    - "This is going to be even less solvable then the other cases"
    - Not the tool for the job, just proof-of-concept.

Start by writing config space.

$a=3(c_1c_2-s_1s_2)+2c_1\text{ and }b=3(c_1s_2+c_2s_1)+2s_1$

subject to $S^1\times S^1$ for joint space. The equations can then be solved as a system with the constraints included, $\mathbb{R}(a,b)[c_1,s_1,c_2,s_2]$. That system is potentially problematic:
    - division by zero
    - change of leading terms

### Singularity

How can we move the hand from $(1,1)$ to $(-1,-1)$ in a straight line, given a robot with segment lengths 1 and 1?

We want a function in the joint space $j(t)==(\theta_1(t),\theta_2(t))$ such that if $f$ is the function that describes the robot then $c(t)=f(j(t))$.

Oh look, $(0,0)$ is a tragically bad point, sometimes it's okay, but other times the robot needs to teleport.

We have 

$f(\theta_1,\theta_2)=\begin{pmatrix}\cos(\theta_1+\theta_2)+\cos(\theta_1)\\\sin(\theta_1+\theta_2)\sin(\theta_1)\end{pmatrix}$

with Jacobian

$J_f(p)=\begin{pmatrix} \dfrac{\delta f_1}{\delta \theta_1}(p) & \dfrac{\delta f_1}{\delta \theta_2}(p) \\ \dfrac{\delta f_2}{\delta \theta_1}(p) & \dfrac{\delta f_2}{\delta \theta_2}(p)\end{pmatrix}$

which functions as a linear approximation of $f-f(p)$, the set of allowed directions (following from gradients).

In the case of our function, the specialized Jacobian at $f(\frac{3\pi}{4},\pi)=(0,0)$ is 

$J_f\left(\frac{3\pi}{4},\pi\right)=\begin{mathbfatrix}0&\dfrac{\sqrt{2}}{2}\\0&\dfrac{\sqrt{2}}{2}\end{mathbfatrix}$

which has a rank of 1, thus the point is a singularity (problematic).

In general, a kinematic singularity is a point such that the Jacobian is not full rank, as in 

$\text{rank}(J_f(\theta))<\text{min}(\text{dim}(J),\text{dim}(C)).$

With the general form of the Jacobian, a point is singular if and only if the determinant is zero. Magic also happens even when a point does not look singular to a human, such as the arm being entirely extended and being able to move along the circle but only move inwards following ambigious (and thus singular) paths. 

**Prop:** A matrix is rank $< n$ if all $n\times n$ minors vanish. This can be used for non-square matrices to determine rank.

### Facts

- *[explains pocket protectors after pen leaks in his pants]*
- My brain is currently rebelling against this proof
- You can always separate things, and sometimes it turns out to be unnecessary when you're writing the proof
- It's not possible but you have to prevent that possibility
- There were some clever arguments people gave, I don't remember them though
- There are only so many finite sets. *[thinks for a while]* Well, there are infinitely many.
- This is one of those theorems.
- They just say algebraic things instead of geometric things.
- *[gets roasted the second he tries to draw a diagram]*
- 90% of the time you just blindly calculate, get an answer, and don't worry about it.
- I need to choose a point that makes actual sense
- I'm not good at always being correct
- The last time I saw a ruler was highschool
- Did I get the order completely backwards? We'll see.
- One of my equations has turned into nonsense
- I didn't technically schedule this, I just didn't tell them not to do it.
- I don't feel like spelling "kinematic" right now, that's why I'm not writing it on the board