---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 12: Robotics"
date: 2019-11-20
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### TODO

- Homework lmao.
- Don't show up to class next week

### Facts

- *[Prior to class students failed to plan an "adult" party, after having been told that a pizza party would be childish]*
- No class next week
- I really have no idea how much material I have
- I'm probably not going to cover anything interesting on the last day
- The second time I read it I was like "oh wait, it's trivial" but I included it anyway
- That's a problem I'm comfortable calling trivial 
- People often quote Einstein as saying this
- We're going to pretend the real world is easy
- Everyone nowadays is about flexible robots
- It'll be convenient to have some width for this
- Not for actual math
- Create a mathematical model, figure out all the things it tells you, then figure out all the ways it doesn't tell you anything
- Now you can draw a robot
- We're just going to pretend that there is maybe ground and just that the robot can move through the ground
- Math and the real world do not always get along
- You can't move the ground
- Making up numbers
- I really am making numbers up, I have not prepared these.
- The hand is just a generic magical hand thing that does anything we want it to
- The hand I've drawn is for pictoral purposes only
- Angles are horrible
- People whose job it is to take mathematical nonsense we write on the board and translate it to real world problems
- It's not that I don't trust you, I'd just have to listen and write at the same time
- We're going to solve the dummy version
- Unfortunately, that's not actually true
- The origin is here and my picture is terrible
- All we have here are circles, we don't have any weirder shapes
- Let's just write this even though I don't like what I'm writing
- *"Until he draws axes my x-direction is up"* *[he draws axes]*
- In my opinion $\theta_1$ and $\theta_2$ are negative
- I'm just going to complain about that
- You just put a negative sign in front of all of your thetas
- Hopefully I'm going to get minimally confused this way.
- Here is where we confuse ourselves
- None of this requires any thought
- Let's just draw our angles in the positive direction and pretend untiil we need to worry about that
- Did I put a minus there? That's supposed to be a plus no matter what
- We know how to deal with polynomial constraints. At least in theory.
- *[on the topic of trig identities]* When I don't have my phone I know roughly what they look like, then I plug in sins and cosines
- I've written a lot of things we haven't written in this class
- I can't deal with inequalities in this class
- I feel like I have a big point I'm building up to, but then I forgot
- Oh wait, there is one thing you can do.
- I don't know how to do that because I don't know *real* algebraic geometry
- I'd consider myself a commutative algebraist 
- There is all kinds of fancy stuff they do and I don't understand it
- I know how to do this, but I'm not sure if I've taught you all of the prerequisites to do this
- I don't have the tools to deal with this *[gestures at entire problem]*
- I don't know what I'm putting on the homework yet
- Here is a stupid robot. Alright, here is a *silly* robot
- We have a lot of time, we're not going to waste all of it
- if you're in 4+ dimensions, what is a robot *[turns into a philosophy class]*
- It turns out you can add a lot of different joints in three dimensions
- I did not sign up for art class
- It's hard to understand two angles
- I haven't thought about this either
- The wrist is nonsense 
- I have a function, now invert it ! *[points at board] I erased it though.

### Homework Review

- Homework was easy for once.

### "Robots"

- Allowed segments, revolute joints (with parameter $\theta$), and prismatic joints (with parameter $L$, as a piston)
- Questions:
    - In what configuration is the hand? (forward kinematic)
    - Where can the hand be? (also forward kinematics)
    - How to move between configuations? (reverse kinematics)
- Create variables with respect to trig
- Utilize limited mapping, for example $f: S^1\times S^1\times [1,3]\to \mathbb{A}^2\times S^1$
    - $S^n$ is an abstract space, indicating the $n$-dimensional sphere
    - Circle is 1-dim'l, because the boundary is the important part
- Use elimination ideal, lexical necessary, to remove variables in system.
- **Q:** Is there math for propogating a PID through all the joints?

### 3+ Dimensions

- All of the things from two dimensions can be used, in addition: ball (3-d revolute) joints now exist, helical (prismatic revolute with related rotation and extension), and other things that exist in only Jay's nightmares