---
title: "CSCL1101 Lecture 13: Through the Arc of the Rainforest"
date: 2019-10-29
categories: [CSCL1101]
---

### TODO

- 11.5: Paragraph proposal
- 11.12: One body paragraph
- 11.21: Essay 

## Paper

### What is ~~an introduction~~ MLA?

- No title page, include *basic MLA header*
- Page number and last name in top right
    - (no one actually looked up what MLA standards)
- Title should exist and **be original**
- 1" margins, double-spaced, TNR, no breaks, etc.
    - (*clearly* no one actually looked up what MLA standards)

### What is an introduction?

- Don't sweep, focus in on something.
- Brief overview makes you seem smarter than you are.
- Few sentences about **theme**
    - I bolded **theme** because it was bold on the slide
    - I'm suspicious this class is for bots pretending to be human
- Address posited view, imply or assert
- Actually have an opinion
    - Just figured out how someone got a 60 on the first essay

## Through the Arc of the Rainforest

### Ecology

- "Saving the environment" as a fad rather than value
    - Amazon is photogenic
    - Focus on easy-to-defend issues while not recognizing the depth of conflict
- Parking-lot scene:
    - Demonstrates how quickly nature can evolve
    - TIes into magical realism with the extremely improbable evolution
        - (looking at you, arsenic rat)
    - Out of place &rarr; theme connections are key
- Remarkable characters:
    - Three arm boy (Tweep) reaches out and has a hand in everything.
    - Feather man (Mane Pena) starts out very simple, does not need much. Then starts doing the feather and suicide cults happen.
        - Feathers become a commodity and then it all goes downhill
    - The "angel" (Chico) is a generically selfless strawmman, who learns that his own selflessness is not enough because people suck.
        - Actually was entirely selfish and just wanted to go to the Matacao
        - He becomes a capitalist overlord when the whole industry of pilgrimage appears
    - The one who likes pigeons far too much (Batista) is just into pigeons. He's not in it for the profit.
        - His wife is though.
        - Pigeons become a source of trauma
- End result: If you are capitalist you kill yourself.
