---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 10: Resultants"
date: 2019-11-06
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### TODO

- Homework lmao.

### Facts

- I didn't expect people to do as badly on that as they did
- When you know something everything is obvious
- There are two ways to make a problem too hard, one of which is that it's just too hard 
- Every time I write parantheses and G's my parentheses turn into G's
- It's not great
- Some of them are correct but... *[pauses before continuing]*
- Some are long-winded and useless
- Technically everything you said is true, but not meaningful
- Hey look, same word!
- This is one of the problems with math.
- I'm being slightly less detailed than I would be on paper.
- *[on the topic of \not]* Sometimes it puts the line in a stupid place
- *[turns out \not\mid ($$\not\mid$$) looks terrible but \nmid ($$\nmid$$) is a command]*
- *[trying to stop talking about \not when he himself started it]* We're on a terrible tangent though
- *[still on that tangent}* I'm not saying all mac users are idiots...
- As long as your not circular it's fine
- Problem 1 on 7 was not *meant* to be difficult
- Remember, for this class there is nothing I *have* to get to
- We can always go slower
- 2's are not 1's
- *[attempting to write a variety]* ooh, that's not a V
- Now we have questions we can answer, well, maybe...
- *[tries to descripe a projected parametrization and just breaks]*
- Now is when you get the wrong answer
- He was going to say friends and then stopped
- *[Taking half-class break right after homework review]*
- *[PSA: Lichess 1900s are really bad]*
- There is a lot of interesting research with this kind of stuff, too bad I don't know any of it
- This is going to look very random
- It doesn't actually matter, I'm just going to confuse myself
- This is what the book does, so we're going to go with it
- I feel your pain.
- Trust me, this is a good idea
- Maybe I shouldn't have erased that definition
- There's a thing you may know, the quadratic formula
- *[on the topic of the discriminant]* You may think to yourself, what is it? Where did it come from?
- *[writes the quadratic formula incorrectly]*

### Homework Review

- Jay "couldn't fine time to grade" x2
- 7-1: 
    - Same sets and monomial &rarr; unique "minimal" generating set.
    - $$LT(G)$$ and $$LT(\tilde{G})$$ are minimal generating sets, suppose redundancy then check divisibility.
- 9-3:
    - More struggle than expected
    - Pretty much $$V(I_2)$$ compared to $$\pi_2(V(I))$$
    - First exclusion is the empty set because of the constant
    - $$I_1=\langle v^2z-x,vx-y, vyz-x^3, x^4-y^2z\rangle$$
    - Extension Thm makes us think about about $$V(z,x,yz,x^4-y^2z)$$, thus $z=x=0$ and $y$ can be whatever.

(if the extension thm is so good why is there no sequel?)

### Extension Thm 2

- **Extension Thm:** Let $$I=\langle f_1,\dots f_s\rangle \subseteq \mathbb{C}[x_1,\dots,x_n]$$ let $$I_1$$ be the first elimination ideal for all $$1\leq i \leq S$$ write 
$$f_i = g_c(x_2,\dots,x_n)x_1^{N_i} + \dots$$ 
followed by the terms with lower degree on $$x_1$$, with $$g_c \neq 0$$ and $$N_i \geq 0$$. Suppose $$(a_2,\dots,a_n)$$ is a partial solution if $$(a_2,\dots,a_n)\notin V(g_1,\dots,g_s)$$ $$\exists a_1$$ such that $$(a_1,\dots,a_n)\in V(I)$$. 
    - Working understanding: Terms can be grouped and then extraneous ones are derived from $g$ terms.
    - (I did not just copy from last week)
- Geometrically, $$\pi_1(V(I))\subseteq V(I_1)$$ and $$V(I_1) - \pi_1(V(I)) \subseteq V(g_1,\dots,g_s)$$

### Resultants

- **Sylvester matrix:** For $$f,g\in k[x]$$, $$f=a_0x^n+a_1x^{n-1}+\dots+a_n$$ and $$g=b_0x^{m}+b_1x^{m-1}+\dots+b_m$$, is the matrix 

$$\text{Syl}(f,g,x)=\underbrace{\begin{bmatrix}
a_0 & & & & b_0 & & & \\
a_1 & a_0 & & & b_1 & b_0 & & \\
a_2 & a_1 &  \ddots & & b_2 & b_1 & \ddots & \\
\vdots & & \ddots & a_0 & \vdots & & \ddots & b_0 \\
& \vdots & & a_1 & &\vdots& & b_1 \\
a_n & & & & b_m & & & \\
& a_n & & \vdots & & b_m & & \vdots \\
& & \ddots & & & & \ddots & \\
& & & a_n & & & b_m\
\end{bmatrix}}_{m+n}$$

- **Resultant:** $$\text{Res}(f,g,x)=\text{det}(\text{Syl}(f,g,x))$$
- **Thm:** If $$f,g$$ have a common root then the resultant is zero.
    - Follows from non-zero kernel:
    - If $$x$$ is a common root, then $$(a^{n+m-1},\dots,1)\cdot \text{Syl}(f,y,x)=\vec{0}\implies \text{Res}(f,g,x)=0$$
    - Stronger iff theorem is also true.
- **Prop:** Let $$f,g\in k[x]$$ of degrees $$n,m>0$$, then $$f,g$$ have a common factor iff there exist polynomials $$A,B\in k[x]$$ such that:
    - $$A,B\neq 0$$
    - $$\text{deg}A < m,\ \text{deg}B< n$$
    - $$Af+Bg=0$$
- $$\text{Res}(f,f',x)=0$$ iff $$f$$ has a repeated root.
    - $$b^2-4ac$$ is the discriminant of a two-by-two matrix
- Discriminant of any polynomial is $$\dfrac{(-1)^{n-1}}{a_0}\text{Res}(f,f',x)$$