---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 11: "
date: 2019-11-13
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### TODO

- Homework lmao.

### Facts

- Chapter 6 is one of the application things in the book. Well, the only application in the book. 
- *[on the exponent in the discriminant]* It's counting *something*
- It's a bit of a black magic thing
- It's more theoretically useful
- This will probably never matter for any of you again, but it's a fun little thing
- $$f$$ is irreducible if it's not reducible
- Depending on the context they make not look very constant
- This make you happier depending on your inclination towards statements with lots of nots in them
- The proof is "obvious" *puts quotes around "obvious" on the board*
- This is really outside the scope of the class but...
- This is a list of obvious facts that are not actually obvious
- We're going to do them in more than one variables, you're just not going to notice that they are in more than one variable
- There is no reason not to.
- If never seen a matrix in which entries can't be multiplied together, but people do weird things
- I think I can construct this example so it's doable.
- *[guess who said it]* Did someone just say 2 is approximately equal to 3?
- It's just as easy as the one-variable case, assuming I can do it *[spoiler, he couldn't]*
- Often the way you deal with more than one variable is ignoring the other ones
- Did everyone compute it with a z?
- *[me realizing that Rogness has been sitting in the back of the room all class*]
- My notes, where did I put them?
- I had this right in my head
- The cutoff for being *fairly* sure you can do a groebner basis is 5-10 variables.
- A thousand times a thousand is one hundred
- Part one I can prove, using stuff we have not proven
- You put round parantheses instead
- There's the natural question of what if we plug in some numbers?
- *[Jay's 2 looking exactly like a z if you can't comprehend dashes]*
- We're going to pause here because apparently I'm terrible at constructing examples
- This is how you construct examples, you do the wrong thing five times then you get this
- *[Same equation from earlier, but with a z instead o 2]* I really do want it to be a z right now
- Let's not worry about the ten things in this equation that confuse me
- *["Isn't that technically breaking the law?"]* Yes, but no one cares since it is academia
- *[Had the principal-principle debate again]*
- This is the point where I actually need resultants... oh I erased it
-  I'm just slightly confused by notes again.
- What am I doing?
- I don't want to be think about it because I'll get even more confused
- Everytime I read this proof I confuse myself
- This is where I unconfuse myself

### Homework Review

- Homework was grindy, that is what computer programming is for.

### Unique factorization

- **Irreducible:** For $$f\in k[x_1,\dots,x_n]$$, $$f$$ is irreducible if it's ~~not reducible~~ not constant and is not the product of two non-constant polyonmials.
- Every non-constant polyonmial is a product of irredicibles
    - Proof: Inductively decompose into irreducibles (termination is difficult)
- If $$f$$ is irreducible and $$f\vert g\cdot h$$ then $$f\vert g$$ or $$f\vert h$$.
    - $$(1+\sqrt{-5})(1-\sqrt{-5})=6=3\cdot 2$$, different irreducible domain
    - Notably, $$k[x_1,\dots,x_n]$$ is a UFD 
- A field has division, while a domain does not necessarily

### Multi-variable Resultants

- **Def'n:**  $$f,g\in k[x_2,\dots,x_n][x_1]$$, $$f=a_0x_1^l+\dots$$ and $$g=b_0x_1^m+\dots$$ st $$a_0,\dots,a_l,b_0,\dots,b_n\in k[x_2,\dots,x_n]$$, determinant of the Sylvester matrix wrt $$x_1$$. Thus, resultant is a polynomial $$r\in k[x_2,\dots,x_n]$$ 
- **Prop:** For $$f,g\in k[x_1,\dots,x_n]$$ with positive degree in $$x_1$$:
    1. $$Res(f,g,x_1)\in\langle f,g \rangle \cap k[x_2,\dots,x_n]$$
    2. $$Res(f,g,x_1)=0$$ iff $$f$$ and $$g$$ have a common factor with positive $$x_1$$ degree
    - Proof: 1. $$\exists A,B \in k[x_2,\dots,x_n]\st Af+Bg\in \langle f, g\rangle=Res(f,g,x_1)$$ 2. $$k(x_2,\dots,x_n)[x_1]$$ such that rounded parantheses indicate the field of rational functions (providing access to division). Thus, $$\left\{\dfrac{f}{g}\vert f,g\in k[x_2,\dots,x_n]\right\}
- Let $$f,g\in k[x_1,\dots,x_n]$$ of degrees $$l$$, $$m$$, let $$c\in\mathbb{C}^{n-1}$$ then if $$f(x_1,c)$$ has degree $$l$$ and $$g(x_1,c)$$ has degree $$p< m$$. Then $$Res(f,g,x_1)(c)=(a_0(c))^{l-p}\cdot Res(f(x,c),g(x,c),x_1)

### Extension Thm Proof

Suppose $$(c_2,\dots,c_n)\in V(I_1)$$ and $$(c_2,\dots,c_n)\notin V(g_1,\dots,g_s).$$ Let $$J=\left\{(x_1,c)\vert f\in I\right\}.$$ Claim $$J$$ is an ideal in $$k[x_1]$$ and $$J\subseteq k[x]$$ so $$J$$ is a principle ideal such that $$J=\langle u(x_1) \rangle.$$ 

Case 1, $$u$$ is not constant:

$$V(J)\neq\nullset$$ such that for $$c_1\in V(J))$$ we have $$f(c_1,c)=0\forall f \in I (c_1,c)\in V(I).$$

Case 2, $$u$$ is a constant:

$$u\in J=\left\{ f(x,c)\vert f\in I\right\}\exists f\in I\st f(x,c)=u(x).$$

From 

$$Res(f_i,f,x)(c)=(g_i(c))^{N_i-\text{degree}(u)=0}\cdot Res(f_i(x,c),f(x,c),x)=(g_i(c))^{N_i}u^{N_i}\neq 0$$

we have

$$c\in V(I_1)$$ 

and

$$Res(f_i,f,x)\in \langle f_i,f\rangle\cap k[x_1,\dots,x_n]\subseteq I \cap k[x_2,\dots,x_n]$$

which is a contradiction so the case never occurs.