---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 3: Division Algorithm"
date: 2019-09-18
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### Announcements

- Lowest homework dropped

### TODO

- Hommework lmao

### Facts

- I suspect everyone will be fine with that. Unless, if, you know, something happens.
- If you say 1-1=2... *long pause* well it's stupid *longer pause* but I don't care.
- Let's see how this goes with a very tired me
- I meant to take -6
- I don't wan to say it because it won't be useful
- I'm going to try and answer three questions. Well, maybe two, I don't know.
- [Question] 2 is just a better version of 1
- They're both true so it's hard to get the right one
- We're not really going to see this again

### Homework Notes

- Function $$x^3+y^3$$ over $$\mathbb{Z}/3\mathbb{Z}$$ is $$x^3+y^3$$, because while given $$f(x)=x^3$$ and $$g(x)=x$$, $$f=g$$ but the *polynomials* are not equal. 

### Enlightenment

- Algebraic geometry has varieties, which are geometric 
- Commutative Algebra can take the ideal of the variety
- $$V=V(I(V))$$, but $$I\neq I(V(I))

### Ideals in $$k[x]$$

- When are two ideals equal?
- MInimal representation an of ideal?
- Is an element in an ideal?

### Division Algorithm (Thm)

- **Def'n:** For $$f,g\in k[x]$$ there exists $$q,r\in k[x]$$ such that $$f=q\cdot g+r$$ and $$\text{deg}(r)<\text{deg}(g)$$.

### GCD (greatest common divisor)

- **Def'n:** For $$f,g\in k[x]$$ $$h\in\mathbb{Z}$$ is the GCD if $$h|f$$ and $$h|g$$, and if $$d|f$$ and $$d|g$$ then $$d|h$$.
- Can be calculated with the Euclidean Algorithm
- **Lemma:** $$\langle f,g\rangle=\langle \text{gcd}(f,g)\rangle$$
- Principal ideals: $$k[x]$$ amd $$\mathbb{Z}$$, meaning that it is generated by a single element
- Everything breaks in higher dimensions

### Things to fix

- **Monomial order:** A relation on $$k[x_1,\dots,x_n]$$ such that greater than is a total ordering, a well ordering, and commutative property holds.

