---
title: "MATH4990 Lecture 4: Ideal Division"
date: 2019-09-25
math: true
categories: [MATH4990]
---

### TODO

- Homework lmao.

### Facts

- There are many wrong ways to get to the same wrong proof.
- Don't use the word trivial.
- Numbers are easy.
- The bigger things are smaller.
- This is why imperative languages are terrible.
- This is in lex order! I think, I'm bad at ordering.
- This is pretty silly.

### Homework Notes

- In 2 precise wording was required
- In 4 zero elements caused confusion and general *k*-ring ideas.

### Monomial

- **Def'n:** Monomial ordering is a relation $$>$$ on monomials in $$k[x_1,...,x_n]$$ such that 
    1. Is a total order
    1. If $$a>b$$ then $$ac>bc$$
    1. Is a well ordering

Preconindition for everything we do in class today: $$x_1>\dots>x_n$$. 

- $$\alpha>_{\text{lex}}\beta$$ if the leftmost nonzero term of $$\alpha - \beta$$ is positive.
- $$\alpha>_{\text{glex}}\beta$$ if $$\vert\alpha\vert>\vert\beta\vert$$, such that $$\vert\alpha\vert$$ is the sum of the degrees, or that $$\vert\alpha\vert=\vert\beta\vert$$ and $$\alpha>_{\text{lex}}$$.
- $$\alpha>_{\text{grevlex}}\beta$$ $$\vert\alpha\vert>\vert\beta\vert$$ or $$\verta\vert=\vertb\vert$$ and in $$\alpha - \beta$$ the rightmost nonzero term is negative. 

### Division Algorithm

- **Def'n:** Fix a monomial order. Then fix $$f, f_1,\dots,f_s\in k[x_0,\dots,x_k]$$. There exists $$a_1,\dots,a_s, r\in k[x_1,\dots,x_s]$$ such that $$f=a_1f_1+\dots+a_sf_s+r$$ with none of the terms of $$r$$ divisible by LT$$(f_i)$$ and if $$a_if_i\neq 0$$ then LM$$(f)\geq$$LM$$(a_if_i)$$.
- In relation to one dimension:
    - Ending is the degree comparison,
    
### Next time on 4990!

- **Monomial ideal:** Literally an ideal generated by monomials, though may not be generating set. 
