---
title: "APEC1101 Lecture 15: Minimaxing"
date: 2019-10-28
categories: [APEC1101]
---

### TODO

- ACE
- Study for exam? (for real this time.)
- Court Briefs

### Review

- Temporarily shutdown if $$AR < AVC$$
    - Shutdown loses fixed cost only
        - Don't ever lose more than fixed cost or you've messed up
- If AR between AVC and ATC then produce at a loss
- Otherwise, *grofit!*
- "Whenever you are indifferent do it." Life advice from Liu?

### Shutdown and Breakeven

- Short run supply curve is MC above AVC.

### Long-run Decisions

- Profits enourage more firms to get involved until profit is destroyed.
    - Obviously shifts the market supply curve
    - This class is *far* too short to spend time on review but we do it anyway
    - Converse holds.

At this point Liu decides that the class is too quiet and decides to tell us about how he sings Ne Me Quitte Pas to his wife.

### Equilibrium and Triple Equality

- P = MC means that the market has allocative efficiency
- P = min(ATC) means that the market has productive efficiency
- Long run: Market reaches the point MC = ATC.
    - No incentive to enter or exit
    - Consumers pay only the minimum production cost.

### Long-run Continued

- **Constant Cost Industry:** The costs of an industry scale with size. 
    - When there is growth in the industry price increases before returning to original point
    - End result is greater quantity with scale
- **Increasing Cost Industry:** !previous
    - Additional demand &rarr; increase in price and quantity, but not as extreme
    - Important to note that cost curves shift
- **Industry Supply Curve:** How efficientyl an industry responds to dynamism.