---
title: "CSCL1101: Prompt 1"
date: 2019-09-03
---

The principle that *The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas* conveys is that every human society marginalizes some group. In the story, the citizens of Omelas  are happy as long as the child is suffering: "They all understand that their happiness ... depends wholly on this child's abominable misery" (5). The quote asserts that every person needs (or at least believes they need) the child to suffer for their happiness, as "wholly dependent" suggests. The situation is analogous to our own lives, where many of the things that we consume, and that in turn make us happy, are produced by people living in worse circumstances, the classic exploitation of the undeveloped countries by the developed ones. In Omelas, a  single child bears the weight of everyone else's happiness and LeGuin makes sure that the reader's focus is on the child with nebulous descriptions of the city that provide context but little more. Le Guin points that the presence of suffering makes the "utopia" more believable with the quote "Now do you believe them? Are they not more credible?" (6) after presenting the suffering child. This idea of belief that such a place could exist is brought up several times before the child is revealed, but each section hints that the reader is unconvinced or still looking for a catch. LeGuin is suggesting that humans are not capable of imagining a society in which no one is suffering or is marginalized.

A lot of the story is focused on how people react to their situation, the two main groups being the majority who choose to accept it and the minority who walk away (5-7). The more interesting group at face value is those who walk away, the title suggests as much, going into a darkness that is likely the metaphorical unknown: "They do not come back. The place they go toward is a place even less imaginable to most of us than the city of happiness. ... It is possible it does not exist" (7). One clarification is that "the city of happiness" refers to Omelas, not a perfect utopia, as suggested by the prior use of the phrase so it does not preclude them trying to find a perfect system. The darkness is a system under which no is oppressed, but based on our conditioning we can not accept, or even comprehend, it, given that it even exists. The ones who stay in the city are accepting the status quo, either with direct reason or just based on the knowledge it has always been that way: "Some of them understand why, and some do not" (5). The polarization fits the idea discussed in class (Tuesday) of literature both supporting and opposing a point. For the system are those in the city, some of whom even understand why the child is necessary. Against it are those who walk, with nothing but a vision of where they are going and a hope that things can be different. 
