---
title: "MATH4428 Lecture 1: ???"
date: 2020-01-21
math: true 
categories: [MATH4428]
---

### Announcements

- Lind 203, 1220 - 1310, same room for final.
- Office hours MWF 1320 - 1400 at Vincent 231.

### TODO

### Topics

- Optimization (sensitivity analysis, Lagrange multipliers, linear programming)
- Dynamical modeling (steady-states, stability analysis, eigenvalue methods)
- Probabilistic methods (models, markov chains)

### Info

- Homework (0.35), Midterm (.25), and Final (.4) 
    - 4 homework projects, due Feb 19, Mar 18, Apr 8, Apr 29.
    - March 25th midterm during class
    - May 12 1030 - 1230 final
    - TI89 for exams

- Nobel was not a great person (whole anecdote excluded)


Lectures do appear to be rather unorganized, but should be alright at office hours.

### N-dimensional linear programming

(this ended up just being topology review?)

Nobel prize for economics was awarded.

No clear generic intution in higher dimensions, requires state-space search. Solution can be checked in polynomial time.

How do we determine a "corner" in higher dimensions?

**Def:** Segment $[a,b]$, such that $a, b\in\mathbb{R}^n$ is the set $\{x\in\mathbb{R}^n \vert x = (1-t)a+tb, 0\leq t\leq 1\}$

**Def:** $D\subset \mathbb{R}^n$ is convex if for every $a,b\in D$ segment $[a,b]\in D$.

**Def:** A set is open if for any point in the set there is a disk of radius greater than zero such that every point on the disc is in the set.

**Def:** $p\in D$ is a convex point if $p=a=b$ follows from $p\in[a,b]\subset D$.

Circles have infinite corners, but we only like straight lines so it does not matter.

(oh no, he just mentioned real analysis!)

(the clock moves a few seconds at a time, which is terrifying in the corner of my eye)
