---
title: "MATH5445 Lecture 1: "
date: 2020-01-20
math: true 
categories: [MATH5445]
---

### Announcements

- Possibly dropping this class.

### TODO

- Read Chapter 1
- Background by Thursday
    - Neat (LaTeX)
    - All must be public
    - Inclusions
        - Name
        - Major
        - STEM courses
        - Long term goals
        - Current classes and meeting hours
- Know the metabolc pathway

### Info

22 students present

HW assigned Thurs &rarr; Thurs

Website is [here](http://www-users.math.umn.edu/~othmer/5445/2020/)

Othmer did write the book, office Vincent 270B, hours by appointment.

Don't ask questions about things in the book.

Everyone is more qualified than I am, apparently the 4xxx linalg course does not do much.

Seems to be confusion about who has taken what.

30% homework, 30% take home mid-term, 40% paper.

I want to take this class so much.

Will use Maple, MATLAB, or Mathematica.

The guy next to me has a super thick bundle of notes.

"The metabolic network shown in Figure 1.2 resembles an ancient erotic Japanese woodcut"

Someone laughted at my gradient descent joke.

### Topics

1. Introduction and overview of complex networks
1. "Introduction" to differentials and linalg (review + terrifying new stuff)
1. Dynamical systems and bifurcation thoery
1. Reduction of networks: singular perturbation theory, enzyme-catalyzed reactions
1. Signal transduction and gene control networks
    - Classical DE
    - Boolean description
    - Mixed descriptions
    - Genetic switches and oscillators
1. Stochastic analysis of reacting systems
    - "Some basic probability"
    - Random processes
    - Markov chains
    - Simulating stochastic processes
1. Network development analylsis

### Networks

Piece by piece analysis fails, behavior is emergent.

(too lazy to latex differentials)

In cancer central tumor cells become hypoxic as a result of fermentation.

Have to differentiate between stochastic and continuous processes, given continuous 

$\dfrac{du}{dt} = F(u,\mathbf{S})$

such that $u$ is the state an $\mathbf{S}$ is the signal.

### Searching

Given single objective with signal, random walk until variance in signal is found. Pretty much gradient dsecent.
