---
title: "CSCI2021 Lecture 3: "
date: 2020-01-27
math: true 
categories: [CSCI2021]
---

### Announcements

### TODO

- Homework remains done
    - HW2 available tomorrow
    - Project 1 up soon
- Read Bryant Ch1
- Know *all of* C

### scanf

Exciting reading function that makes non-local changes. Example usage:

```
int num = -1;
scanf("%d", &num);
```
Note that it takes in the `&num`, a memory address. Easy to get an error from forgetting that. Also, the `%d` flag indicates that scanf is looking for a decimal number.

(He keeps saying that OCaml does not let you reference memory addresses, but it totally does, admittedly it's supposed to be done implicitly)

Comparatively, higher level languages pass back values in the form of a "return" so non-local references are not needed.

### Safety

*1972 - Dennis Ritchie invents a powerful gun that shoots both forward and backward simultaneously. Not satisfied with the number of deaths and permanent maimings from that invention he invents C and Unix.* - [A Brief, Incomplete, and Mostly Wrong History of Programming Languages](http://james-iry.blogspot.com/2009/05/brief-incomplete-and-mostly-wrong.html) (this is hilarious)

C removes all kinds of safety features for speed and *grofit*. However, it still is "high-level" to an extent, there are things beneath it: THere are Assembly languages, meant to be CPU readable (but only to specific brands). Assembly is human readable, nut only barely. Binary opcodes then represent the digital signal composes of 1's and 0's, each code corresponds directly to actions.

### Goals for CSCI2021

- Be a competent C programmer
- Understand how programs work in physical memory
- Comprehend assembly
    - "Even if you just know enough to explain why you hate it, that'll put you ahead of a lot of folks at lesser institutions"
- Ability to use a symbolic debugger
- Understanding of how data is encoded in binary

### Sizes

C has traditional data types, however they are fiendishly inconsistent. *Usually* integral types are as follows: 

- char (1 bytes)
- short (2 bytes)
- int (4 bytes)
- long (8 bytes)

Floating types:

- float (4 bytes), 6-7 sig figs
- double (8 bytes), 15 sig figs

Pointer types: 

- pointer (4/8), pointers to a 32 or 64bit address, `int *`
- array, pointer to a fixed location, `double[]`

Oh look, booleans don't exist. Usually 0 indicates false, anything else is true. Every type in C has some equivalent of 0.

Oh look, strings don't exist. Either it can be an array of chars or terrifying. "You make mistakes, you get hurt *very* badly."

Oh look, integer types are not symmetric. "I think it's an interesting insight into computer scientists that there are more negatives than positives." That way there are $2^n$ such that $n$ is the number of bits in the type.

Null pointer does not have allocated memory, it just stores a location. Incredibly useful for confiscating the compilers ability to type check which gives programmers more chances to screw themselves. "Kids, this is why types are useful."